README.md, before:


# mol_properties

## baseline_improvements
The development of the [D-MPNN model](https://github.com/chemprop/chemprop) with the second encoder is located in this branch.

### The second encoder's algorithm

This encoder first finds all the interesting substructures in a molecule (rings, acids, amins, esters and sulfonamins) and makes a list of such substructures. After that each of the substructure and all the atoms which were not included in any of substructures are encoded into special "substructure atoms". Each "substructure atom" is evcoded into a vector with 165 features. The features are:
* 55 features for structure, each feature - count of atoms in a substructure with atomic charge `i`,
* 40 features for one-hot encoding of a substructure **external** valence,
* 60 features for one-hot encoding of a substructure count of hydrogens,
* substructure formal_charge (often zero, sometimes 1-2),
* substructure is_aromatic (0/1),
* substructure_mass \* 0.01 (for normalizing),
* sum of internal substructure internal edges \* 0.1 (for normalizing),
* one-hot for structure type (types are - ['ATOM', 'RING', 'ACID', 'AMIN', 'ESTER', 'SULFONAMID'])

The bonds and message passing are not present in this variant of a model. The atom features vectors are passed into a dense layer and avaraged afterwards.

### Running
To run the training script from /mol_properties directory:
```train.py --config_path ./scripts/baseline_improvements/chemprop/datasets/config.json --data_path ./scripts/baseline_improvements/chemprop/datasets/logp_wo_averaging_train.csv --dataset_type regression```

The configuration file is located in ./datasets/config.json
The command line arguments different from original D-MPNN:
- no_substructures depth - count of message passing steps for D-MPNN encoder
- substructures/no_substructures hidden size - size of hidden layer size in each encoder
- no_substructures_atom_messages - message passing based on atom messages or not in D-MPNN encoder
- no_substructures_undirected - whether to use directed or undirected MPNN in D-MPNN encoder
- substructures_use_substructures - whether to use additional substructures(acids, amins, sulfonamins, esters)
- substructures_merge - whether to merge neighboring cycles or not

There is also a new type of cross-validation ("one_out_crossval"/"k-fold") which takes one of the four parts of the input dataset and uses it as validation.

To run hyperparameter optimization from /mol_properties you need to run:
```hyperparameter_optimization.py --config_path ./scripts/baseline_improvements/chemprop/datasets/config.json --data_path ./scripts/baseline_improvements/chemprop/datasets/logp_wo_averaging_train.csv --dataset_type regression --config_save_path ./scripts/baseline_improvements/chemprop/datasets/hyperparameter_optimization/best_params.json```

### Feature generators

Some new feature generators were added.
- RDKit without MolLogP feature
- Only RDKit calculated MolLogP feature
- RDKit features without any fragment counting features

Commit message:

MPAPC-67 Added comparison between our best model and D-MPNN

README.md, after:


# mol_properties

## MPAPC-65
The development of the [D-MPNN model](https://github.com/chemprop/chemprop) with the second encoder without message passing is located in this branch.

### The second encoder's algorithm

This encoder first finds all the interesting substructures in a molecule (rings, acids, amins, esters and sulfonamins) and makes a list of such substructures. After that each of the substructure and all the atoms which were not included in any of substructures are encoded into special "substructure atoms". Each "substructure atom" is evcoded into a vector with 165 features. The features are:
* 55 features for structure, each feature - count of atoms in a substructure with atomic charge `i`,
* 40 features for one-hot encoding of a substructure **external** valence,
* 60 features for one-hot encoding of a substructure count of hydrogens,
* substructure formal_charge (often zero, sometimes 1-2),
* substructure is_aromatic (0/1),
* substructure_mass \* 0.01 (for normalizing),
* sum of internal substructure internal edges \* 0.1 (for normalizing),
* one-hot for structure type (types are - ['ATOM', 'RING', 'ACID', 'AMIN', 'ESTER', 'SULFONAMID'])

The bonds and message passing are not present in this variant of a model. The atom features vectors are passed into a dense layer and avaraged afterwards.

### Running
To run the training script from /mol_properties directory:
```train.py --config_path ./scripts/baseline_improvements/chemprop/datasets/config.json --data_path ./scripts/baseline_improvements/chemprop/datasets/logp_wo_averaging_train.csv --dataset_type regression```

The configuration file is located in ./datasets/config.json
The command line arguments different from original D-MPNN:
- no_substructures depth - count of message passing steps for D-MPNN encoder
- substructures/no_substructures hidden size - size of hidden layer size in each encoder
- no_substructures_atom_messages - message passing based on atom messages or not in D-MPNN encoder
- no_substructures_undirected - whether to use directed or undirected MPNN in D-MPNN encoder
- substructures_use_substructures - whether to use additional substructures(acids, amins, sulfonamins, esters)
- substructures_merge - whether to merge neighboring cycles or not

There is also a new type of cross-validation ("one_out_crossval"/"k-fold") which takes one of the four parts of the input dataset and uses it as validation.

To run hyperparameter optimization from /mol_properties you need to run:
```hyperparameter_optimization.py --config_path ./scripts/baseline_improvements/chemprop/datasets/config.json --data_path ./scripts/baseline_improvements/chemprop/datasets/logp_wo_averaging_train.csv --dataset_type regression --config_save_path ./scripts/baseline_improvements/chemprop/datasets/hyperparameter_optimization/best_params.json```

### Feature generators

Some new feature generators were added.
- RDKit without MolLogP feature
- Only RDKit calculated MolLogP feature
- RDKit features without any fragment counting features

### Best and worst molecules analysis and comparing to SOTA DMPNN

The analysis of the best predicted and worst predicted molecules for this model is located in `notebooks/baseline_improvements/chemprop_with_substructures/1_analyzing_chemprop_with_substructures_best_predictions.ipynb`
